# NotPetya 
## What is NotPetya? 
On Tuesday, June 27, 2017 the world became acquainted with the most destructive malware ever to be deployed. The disaster ushered in a new kind of state-sponsored cyber warfare, with Ukraine the target of a Kremlin-backed effort to frighten those doing business with Ukraine, with which Russia had been in a four-year war. NotPetya had some recognizable features of its 2016 predecessor, the RANSOMEWARE PETYA, as well as the May 2017 WannaCry ransomware attack. However, the scale, motive and precedent NotPetya set is cause for alarm. 

## Why is NotPetya the most destructive? 
1) NotPetya fails to meet the definition of ransomware its message seeking ransom  were disingenuous, as there was no authentic decryption-for-payment opportunity. Following a sudden reboot of one’s machine, NotPetya irreversibly encrypted master boot records even for those willing to pay, there was no decryption key. Thus this explains NotPetya is not just ransomeware. 
2) Damage assessments in dollars are enormous, breaking records As NotPetya infiltrated Ukraine and began to spread, its footprint grew so far and so quickly that it likely shocked its creators. A former Homeland Security cybersecurity expert, Tom Bossert, state the damage totaled $10 billion. This is a mere 0.01% of the cost of the March 2018 ransomware attack on the city of Atlanta. Put in perspective, the WannaCry ransomware attack a month prior to NotPetya is estimated to have cost $4 billion to $8 billion.  
3) NotPetya used two very nasty Windows exploits as NotPetya was a modified version of Petya, using two known exploits for older Windows versions: EternalBlue and Mimikatz. It enables outsiders remote access to run their own code. Delpy’s discovery showed that user passwords on Windows machines persisted in memory, and that they could be extracted from RAM and used for singular or automated, multi-user/multi-machine attacks. It simply, and rapidly, traveled from one system to another, accessing admin credentials. A large Ukrainian bank’s network was taken down in 45 seconds, and part of the country’s transit hub was fully infected in 16 seconds. 
